# Closed-Chromatin-Accessibility-of-CFTR-Drives-the-Progression-of-PDAC
The relevant code of the article

Mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene cause cystic fibrosis (CF), and the resulting CFTR dysfunction has been associated with an increased risk of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). However, somatic CFTR missense mutations are detected in only ~1% of PDAC cases, suggesting that genetic alterations alone cannot explain its widespread loss of function in tumors. To investigate the mechanisms underlying CFTR silencing, we analyzed 43,733 cells from single-cell ATAC-seq data across eight PDAC samples and 353 cell-free DNA (cfDNA) samples. The results revealed that the CFTR locus exhibits markedly reduced chromatin accessibility in malignant ductal cells compared with normal ductal cells. Consistently, transcriptomic profiling of 101,697 cells from 78 single-cell RNA-seq PDAC samples revealed significant downregulation of CFTR expression in tumor ductal cells, which was further validated in 1,639 bulk RNA-seq samples and 401 proteomic samples. Integration of 11 spatial transcriptomic slices further confirmed spatially restricted loss of CFTR expression within malignant ductal regions of PDAC tissues. Functionally, loss of CFTR expression was associated with activation of extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and fibroblast proliferation pathways. In vivo, CFTR knockdown significantly accelerated PDAC progression and was correlated with poor overall survival (shRNA#1 vs. control: HR = 14.22, P = 0.018; shRNA#2 vs. control: HR = 26.21, P = 0.008). In summary, CFTR dysfunction in PDAC results mainly from epigenetic chromatin closure, thereby promoting cancer progression.
